Concept Entry for Drag and Drop SwiftUI (#3259)
Codecademy/docs: content/swiftui/concepts/drag-and-drop/drag-and-drop.md

---

> Title: 'drag-and-drop' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Drag and Drop' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
```

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'API'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-ios-course'
  - 'paths/ios-developer'
---

**Drag and Drop** in SwiftUI is the concept of moving and dropping an object (e.g. a UI element or UIView) around the screen. This feature allows users to easily rearrange, reorder, or transfer objects between different parts of the app's interface by dragging them, enhancing the overall user experience.

> **`DropDelegate`** is a `protocol` in SwiftUI that lets you work with a drag and drop operations in a flexible way. To enable a view to accept drops, use the onDrop() method and specify a drop delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropDelegate`** is a `protocol` in SwiftUI that lets you work with a drag and drop operations in a flexible way. To enable a view to accept drops, use the `onDrop()` method and specify a drop delegate.
```

This code defines a drop delegate that handles different events related to dropping objects onto a view. The events are:

```pseudo
struct CDDropDelegate: DropDelegate {

    func dropEntered(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object enters the view.
  } 
    func dropExited(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object exits the view.
  }

    func dropUpdated(info: DropInfo) -> DropProposal? {
    // Triggered when an object moves within the view. 
  }
  
    func validateDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Determines whether to accept or reject the drop.
  }

    func performDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Handles the drop when the user drops an object onto the view.
  }
}
```

> ## DropProposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## DropProposal
```

> **`DropProposal`** is a `structure` in SwiftUI that helps to control how object and drop operations should be handled when it's dropped into a SwiftUI view. It is used together with the onDrop() modifier to determine what happens when a user drops an object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropProposal`** is a `structure` in SwiftUI that helps to control how object and drop operations should be handled when it's dropped into a SwiftUI view. It is used together with the `onDrop()` modifier to determine what happens when a user drops an object.
```

> You can customize the DropProposal using the operation property to specify the drop operation (e.g., .move or .copy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `DropProposal` can be customized using the operation property to specify the drop operation (e.g., `.move` or `.copy`).
```

                        let dropProposal = DropProposal(operation: .copy)
                        
                        // Check if the drop is targeted to this view
                        if isTargeted {
                            // Handle the drop operation based on the custom DropProposal
                            if let itemProvider = providers.first {
                                itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: String.self) { item, error in
                                    if let droppedText = item as? String {
                                        // Update the text with the dropped content
                                        DispatchQueue.main.async {
                                            self.text = droppedText
                                        }
                                    }
                                }
                                return dropProposal
                            }
                        }
                        
                        return nil
                })
                .frame(width: 200, height: 100)
                .border(Color.gray)
        }
    }
}

```

## DropInfo

> **`DropInfo`** is a `structure` that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the onDrop() modifier. DropInfo gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropInfo`** is a `structure` that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the `onDrop()` modifier. `DropInfo` gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.
```

## Drag and Drop in SwiftUI example

> 

Reviewer: Please add a sentence or two introducing the example and summarizing what it is doing.

                        .shadow(color: .black, radius: 3)
                        .frame(maxWidth: 136)
                        .padding()
                        .onDrag({
                            self.draggedItem = item
                            return NSItemProvider(item: nil, typeIdentifier: item)
                        })
                        .onDrop(of: [UTType.text], delegate: MyDropDelegate(item: item, items: $items, draggedItem: $draggedItem))
                        }
                }
        }
    }
}

struct MyDropDelegate : DropDelegate {

    let item : String
    @Binding var items : [String]
    @Binding var draggedItem : String?

    func performDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
        return true
    }

    func dropEntered(info: DropInfo) {
        guard let draggedItem = self.draggedItem else {
            return
        }

        if draggedItem != item {
            let from = items.firstIndex(of: draggedItem)!
            let to = items.firstIndex(of: item)!
            withAnimation(.default) {
                self.items.move(fromOffsets: IndexSet(integer: from), toOffset: to > from ? to + 1 : to)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

> 
> See [content-standards.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/content-standards.md) for more details!
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Delete this.

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'API'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-ios-course'
  - 'paths/ios-developer'
---

**Drag and Drop** in SwiftUI is the concept of moving and dropping an object (e.g. a UI element or UIView) around the screen. This feature allows users to easily rearrange, reorder, or transfer objects between different parts of the app's interface by dragging them, enhancing the overall user experience.

> **`DropDelegate`** is a `protocol` in SwiftUI that lets you work with a drag and drop operations in a flexible way. To enable a view to accept drops, use the `onDrop()` method and specify a drop delegate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropDelegate`** is a `protocol` in SwiftUI that lets the developer work with a drag and drop operations in a flexible way. To enable a view to accept drops, use the `.onDrop()` method and specify a drop delegate.
```

This code defines a drop delegate that handles different events related to dropping objects onto a view. The events are:

```pseudo
struct CDDropDelegate: DropDelegate {

    func dropEntered(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object enters the view.
  } 
    func dropExited(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object exits the view.
  }

    func dropUpdated(info: DropInfo) -> DropProposal? {
    // Triggered when an object moves within the view. 
  }
  
    func validateDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Determines whether to accept or reject the drop.
  }

    func performDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Handles the drop when the user drops an object onto the view.
  }
}
```
## DropProposal

> **`DropProposal`** is a `structure` in SwiftUI that helps to control how object and drop operations should be handled when it's dropped into a SwiftUI view. It is used together with the `onDrop(` modifier to determine what happens when a user drops an object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropProposal`** is a structure in SwiftUI that helps to control how object and drop operations should be handled when it's dropped into a SwiftUI view. It is used together with the `.onDrop()` modifier to determine what happens when a user drops an object.
```

                        let dropProposal = DropProposal(operation: .copy)
                        
                        // Check if the drop is targeted to this view
                        if isTargeted {
                            // Handle the drop operation based on the custom DropProposal
                            if let itemProvider = providers.first {
                                itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: String.self) { item, error in
                                    if let droppedText = item as? String {
                                        // Update the text with the dropped content
                                        DispatchQueue.main.async {
                                            self.text = droppedText
                                        }
                                    }
                                }
                                return dropProposal
                            }
                        }
                        
                        return nil
                })
                .frame(width: 200, height: 100)
                .border(Color.gray)
        }
    }
}

```

## DropInfo

> **`DropInfo`** is a `structure` that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the `onDrop()` modifier. `DropInfo` gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`DropInfo`** is a structure that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the `.onDrop()` modifier. `DropInfo` gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.
```

## Drag and Drop in SwiftUI example

> Here is the example of a simple LazyVGrid with 4 items. We have a `onDrag()` view modifier for each item which allows us to handle the dragging. And `onDrop()` view modifier allows us to move and reorder elements, with the result being stored in a State variable named `draggedItem`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the example of a simple LazyVGrid with 4 items. We have a `.onDrag()` view modifier for each item which allows us to handle the dragging. And `.onDrop()` view modifier allows us to move and reorder elements, with the result being stored in a State variable named `draggedItem`.
```

---
Title: 'Drag and Drop'
Description: 'Drag and Drop in SwiftUI allows a user to pick up and drop an object from one view to another.' 
Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: 
  - 'API'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-ios-course'
  - 'paths/ios-developer'
---

**Drag and Drop** in SwiftUI is the concept of moving and dropping an object (e.g. a UI element or UIView) around the screen. This feature allows users to easily rearrange, reorder, or transfer objects between different parts of the app's interface by dragging them, enhancing the overall user experience.

> git 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> ## Moving transferable items can be used in iOS 16+

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Move Transferable Items
```

SwiftUI `Transferable` protocol simplifies the process of adding drag and drop experience to an app. To achieve this with minimal code using the `.draggable()` and `.dropDestination()` modifiers.

> **Dragging**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dragging

```

> To enable dragging functionality we have to attach `.draggable()` view modifier to the view and pass the object. The object has to conform to the `Transferable` protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enable dragging functionality by attaching the `.draggable()` view modifier to the view and passing in the object. The object has to conform to the `Transferable` protocol.
```

> For example, this code displays four Apple products and allows the user to drag any of them into the box positioned below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, this code displays four strings representing Apple products, and allows the user to drag any of them into the box positioned below:
```

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var appleProducts: [String] = ["iphone", "macbook.and.iphone", "ipad", "applewatch.watchface"]
    @State private var dropImage = Image(systemName: "square.and.arrow.down")

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            HStack {
                ForEach(appleProducts, id: \.self) { product in
                    Image(systemName: product)
                        .frame(minWidth: 50, minHeight: 50)
                        .background(.white)
                        .foregroundStyle(.black)
                        .cornerRadius(10)
                        .draggable(product)
                }
            }
            .frame(minWidth: 250, minHeight: 70)
            .cornerRadius(10)
            .background(.yellow)
        }
    }
}
```

> **Dropping**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dropping
```

> In order to handle the drop we have to use `.dropDestination()`. It has two parameter values: `items` is an array containing all the dragged items. However, when only one item is being dragged, this array will contain just one element. `location` indicates the position of the dragged item within the drop view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to handle the drop, use `.dropDestination()`. It has two parameter values:

- `items` is an array containing all the dragged items. However, when only one item is being dragged, this array will contain just one element.
- `location` indicates the position of the dragged item within the drop view.
```

    @State private var dropImage = Image(systemName: "square.and.arrow.down")

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            HStack {
                ForEach(appleProducts, id: \.self) { product in
                    Image(systemName: product)
                        .frame(minWidth: 50, minHeight: 50)
                        .background(.white)
                        .foregroundStyle(.black)
                        .cornerRadius(10)
                        .draggable(product)
                }
            }
            .frame(minWidth: 250, minHeight: 70)
            .cornerRadius(10)
            .background(.yellow)
            
            Text("Drop items here:")
            
            dropImage
                .frame(width: 200, height: 150)
                .background(.blue)
                .foregroundStyle(.white)
                .cornerRadius(10)
                .dropDestination(for: Image.self) { items, location in
                    dropImage = items.first ?? Image(systemName: "square.and.arrow.down")
                    print(location)
                    return true
                }
        }
    }
}
```

> ## Moving items using item providers 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Moving Items Using Item Providers 
```

                                itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: String.self) { item, error in
                                    if let droppedText = item as? String {
                                        // Update the text with the dropped content
                                        DispatchQueue.main.async {
                                            self.text = droppedText
                                        }
                                    }
                                }
                                return dropProposal
                            }
                        }
                        
                        return nil
                })
                .frame(width: 200, height: 100)
                .border(Color.gray)
        }
    }
}

```

**DropInfo**

**`DropInfo`** is a `structure` that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the `onDrop()` modifier. `DropInfo` gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.

**Drag and Drop in SwiftUI using `onDrag()` and `onDrop()` example**

> Here is the example of a simple LazyVGrid with 4 items. We have a `onDrag()` view modifier for each item which allows us to handle the dragging. And `onDrop()` view modifier allows us to move and reorder elements, with the result being stored in a State variable named `draggedItem`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is the example of a simple LazyVGrid with 4 items. The `.onDrag()` view modifier is called on each item which handles the dragging. And the `.onDrop()` view modifier allows us to move and reorder elements, with the result being stored in a state variable named `draggedItem`.
```

---
Title: 'Drag and Drop'
Description: 'Drag and Drop in SwiftUI allows a user to pick up and drop an object from one view to another.' 
Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: 
  - 'Methods'
  - 'iOS'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'learn-ios-course'
  - 'paths/ios-developer'
---

**Drag and Drop** in SwiftUI is the concept of moving and dropping an object (e.g. a UI element or UIView) around the screen. This feature allows users to easily rearrange, reorder, or transfer objects between different parts of the app's interface by dragging them, enhancing the overall user experience.

> ## Move Transferable Items

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

## Move Transferable Items
```

### Dragging

Enable dragging functionality by attaching the `.draggable()` view modifier to the view and passing in the object. The object has to conform to the `Transferable` protocol.
For example, this code displays four strings representing Apple products, and allows the user to drag any of them into the box positioned below:

```swift
struct ContentView: View {
    @State private var appleProducts: [String] = ["iphone", "macbook.and.iphone", "ipad", "applewatch.watchface"]
    @State private var dropImage = Image(systemName: "square.and.arrow.down")

    var body: some View {
        VStack {
            HStack {
                ForEach(appleProducts, id: \.self) { product in
                    Image(systemName: product)
                        .frame(minWidth: 50, minHeight: 50)
                        .background(.white)
                        .foregroundStyle(.black)
                        .cornerRadius(10)
                        .draggable(product)
                }
            }
            .frame(minWidth: 250, minHeight: 70)
            .cornerRadius(10)
            .background(.yellow)
        }
    }
}
```

> ### Dropping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dropping

```

                    dropImage = items.first ?? Image(systemName: "square.and.arrow.down")
                    print(location)
                    return true
                }
        }
    }
}
```

## Moving Items Using Item Providers 

**`DropDelegate`** is a `protocol` in SwiftUI that lets the developer work with a drag and drop operations in a flexible way. To enable a view to accept drops, use the `onDrop()` method and specify a drop delegate.
This code defines a drop delegate that handles different events related to dropping objects onto a view. The events are:

```pseudo
struct CDDropDelegate: DropDelegate {

    func dropEntered(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object enters the view.
  } 
    func dropExited(info: DropInfo) {
    // Triggered when an object exits the view.
  }

    func dropUpdated(info: DropInfo) -> DropProposal? {
    // Triggered when an object moves within the view. 
  }
  
    func validateDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Determines whether to accept or reject the drop.
  }

    func performDrop(info: DropInfo) -> Bool {
    // Handles the drop when the user drops an object onto the view.
  }
}
```

> **DropProposal**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `DropProposal`
```

**`DropProposal`** is a `structure` in SwiftUI that helps to control how object and drop operations should be handled when it's dropped into a SwiftUI view. It is used together with the `.onDrop()` modifier to determine what happens when a user drops an object.

> The `DropProposal` can be customized using the operation property to specify the drop operation (e.g., `.move` or `.copy`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

`DropProposal` can be customized using the operation property to specify the drop operation (e.g., `.move` or `.copy`).
```

                        let dropProposal = DropProposal(operation: .copy)
                        
                        // Check if the drop is targeted to this view
                        if isTargeted {
                            // Handle the drop operation based on the custom DropProposal
                            if let itemProvider = providers.first {
                                itemProvider.loadObject(ofClass: String.self) { item, error in
                                    if let droppedText = item as? String {
                                        // Update the text with the dropped content
                                        DispatchQueue.main.async {
                                            self.text = droppedText
                                        }
                                    }
                                }
                                return dropProposal
                            }
                        }
                        
                        return nil
                })
                .frame(width: 200, height: 100)
                .border(Color.gray)
        }
    }
}

```

> **DropInfo**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## DropInfo
```

**`DropInfo`** is a `structure` that gives information about a drop action. It is commonly used when handling drops with the `onDrop()` modifier. `DropInfo` gives details about the drop location, the types of data being dropped, and other important information.

> **Drag and Drop in SwiftUI using `onDrag()` and `onDrop()` example**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example Using `.onDrag()` and `.onDrop()`
```

---
Title: 'Drag and Drop'
Description: 'Drag and Drop in SwiftUI allows a user to pick up and drop an object from one view to another.' 
Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
Tags: 

>   - 'API'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
